Factors influencing taxi trip Duration!
Taxi Features:
1) Taxi with lesser than 5 seats are used for shorter duration.(compact,sedan,luxury)
2)taxis in good condition are likely to be used for longer duration trips
3)Taxis in bad condition are likely to take longer duration than average duration for shorter trips as well.
4)hatchback cars take lesser time to commute through traffic than that of XUV's and sedans types

Driver & passenger details:
1)Driver new to the city might take longer duration to reach destination
2)Driver with less driving experience will taker longer travel time.
3)IF older ppl or pregnent women are in the passenger seat then taxis tend to go slow
4)If the driver is new to driving or car is new the tend to go slower.
5)Age of the driver and the duration?
6)car polling!yes or no?

Time based features:
1)early morning trip duration would take lesser time than avg time travel for the day.
2)evening to night could be peak hours and could take longer time.

Day of the week:
1)Weekdays may be used for shorter trips to commute to office or public transport
2)Weekends may be used for longer trips to commute to outstations nearby.



Traffic and condition of roads:
1)if the condition of road is good,then travel time is less
2)could take longer time for short trips with traffic during peak time

Weather:
1)If there is rain or storm,travel time might be high.
2)higher demand is during sunny and cooler days

Distance to destination:
1)distance between the pick up point and drop point ?
2)within city or outside city which takes longer duration ?
3)location of pick up point, if its a narrow road

Holiday or not:
1)if the holiday falls a day before weekend,there might be demand for longer distance travel.
2)Public holidays would tend to take lesser commute time(AID).
3)Holiday seasons tend to have lesser traffic and commute time(christmas,Thanksgiving,Easter)










                                      end




